
The history of RS and MET:

In the early 2000s, I studied communication science (with focus on audio signal processing), 
computer science (with focus on artificial intelligence / neural networks) and acoustics at the
Technical University of Berlin. The certificate and thesis can be seen here:
<a class="download" href="documents/certificates/MasterCertificateAndThesis.zip">here</a> (in 
german). I was also a passionate audio technology enthusiast and played a lot with synthesizers and 
effect algorithms and did some sound design and produced some really bad techno music. Then I 
stumbled upon the VST-SDK by Steinberg - I think, it was version 2.1 at that time - and was 
immediately intrigued and slid into the deep rabbit hole of vst plugin development and digital 
signal processing. I released the plugins as freebies under the brand "braindoc" which was my 
wannabe artist pseudonym at that time. Towards the end of my degree, it crystallized that I want to 
get more serious about audio plugin programming and so in August 2008, I founded RS-MET as a 
one-man-business with the goal of creating and selling audio plugins. The first commercial plugin 
was the subtractive synthesizer Straightliner, later I added the multitap delay plugin EchoLab. The 
sales numbers were rather underwhelming to say the least. I did not do much marketing though. I'm 
totally not a salesperson. So I shifted towards doing some consulting and contracting in the realm
of DSP algorithms. During the times of the corona pandemic and Russo-Ukrainian war in the early 
2020s my mental health began to detoriate and in 2023 I wasn't really able to finish much work 
anymore and could barely even communicate properly with clients. I was burned out. ...diagnosed in early 2024...
and it became clear that the situation is not tenable anymore. 




I don't want to go into too much detail, but it had to do with overstretching my own capabilities 
and foremostly the precarious financial situation of having to live from month to month without a 
regular income. I don't have any financial buffer, so it gets existential rather quickly.


I agreed as a solo developer to create a full complex product for 

1st: mixsonic - mini Daw, UVI
2nd: timestretching wrappers for LuaDJ - DJ software, Vinnie Falco
3rd: custom sample processing algorithms for SoundEmote
4th: sinusoidal modeling framework for OrangeTree samples
5th: sampler engine, ModeAudio




